# Documents submitted to ISO

The documents in this folder were submitted to ISO for duscussion.
*they are not final specifications or even working drafts*

The docx (Microsoft Word) files are authoritative;
other formats are for convenience but were not submitted to ISO.

## 2024-01 (January 2024)

After the ad-hoc call (see next paragraph), a new version was prepared
for submission to the ISO MPEG OFF committee.
It lacks some of the introductory text, had a DMAP proposal removed, and some offsets fixed.
In VARC, CFF2Index has been renamed to (CFF2-style) INDEX.

The “e” versions are revised based on feedback:
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01e.docx - Microsoft Office file](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01e.docx)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01e.odt - LibreOffice file](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01e.odt)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01e.pdf - PDF exported from LibreOffice](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01e.pdf)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01e.md - markdown generated by pandoc](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01e.md)

The “c”/“d” versions were sent to the ISO committee for consideration:
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01d.docx - Microsoft Office file](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01d.docx)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01d.odt - LibreOffice file](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01d.odt)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01d.pdf - PDF exported from LibreOffice](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01d.pdf)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01d.md - markdown generated by pandoc](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01d.md)

During an ad-hoc committee telephone in January 2024, some changes were
requested. The primary substantive changes were to remove the DMAP propsal
(it will become a separate document), and to extend BASE to allow a reference
glyph for baselines with a 24-bit Glyph ID. Editorial changes, including moving
definitions of type and adding some notes, are also included:
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01b.odt - LibreOffice file](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01b.odt)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01b.pdf - PDF exported from LibreOffice](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01b.pdf)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01b.md - markdown generated by pandoc](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01b.md)


After an ad-hoc committee teleconference in December, and much email and github
issue discussion, these documents incorporate DMAP, a separate VARC,
a  new TTC header, and more changes, all of which are listed at the beginning.

   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01.odt - LibreOffice file](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01.odt)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01.pdf - PDF exported from LibreOffice](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01.pdf)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01.md - markdown generated by pandoc](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2024-01.md)


## 2023-11 (November 2023)

The proposal from September, revised after an informal _ad hoc_ committee meeting by telephone in Octoner 2023.
The main changes from the September draft are:
   * Text for the main new or changed tables such as GLYF is copied from the existing text (such as for glyf) and updated; this adds substantially to the number of pages. Updated text is highlighted in yellow.
   * The headers for GSUB, GPOS and GDEF are now minor revisions to the pre-existing headers, not entirely new versions, and are made compatible.
   * Some more tables, notably sbix, have been handled.
   * Sub-tables and new fields now have names like _dancingPaul2_ instead of _dancingPaul32_.

The files are here:
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2023-11-20.odt - LibreOffice file](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2023-11-20.odt)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2023-11-20.pdf - PDF exported from LibreOffice](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2023-11-20.pdf)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2023-11-20.md - markdown generated by pandoc](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-2023-11-20.md)


## 2023-09 (September 2023)

A proposal,
agreed upon informally by an _ad hoc_ committee meeting,
in Portland and online,
in August 2023, to use a new GLYF table to support:
    * Variable Glyph Components
    * Mixed Cubic and Quadratic Bézier curves in glyph outline paths
    * More than 65535 glyphs in a single font

The document has been submitted for discussion:

   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-proposal.odt - LibreOffice file](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-proposal.odt)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-proposal.docx - Microsoft Word file](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-proposal.docx)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-proposal.pdf - PDF exported from LibreOffice](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-proposal.pdf)
   * [WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-proposal.md - markdown generated by pandoc](WG03-beyond-64k-glyphs-proposal.md)




## 2023-08 (August 2023)

The AVAR 2 proposal was accepted by the ISO Working Group, and is now part of
the OpenFont Working Draft. The text here is taken from that Working Draft
(Draft 7):

   * [m64287-avar2-combined-wd7.odt - LibreOffice file](m64287-avar2-combined-wd7.odt)
   * [m64287-avar2-combined-wd7.pdf - PDF exported from LibreOffice](m64287-avar2-combined-wd7.pdf)

## 2023-07 (July 2023)

m64287 combined, _Updating AVAR table in OFF to support the needs of modern computing platforms._

This is a later version of m64287, and includes the full text, not just the changes. Note that section
numbers relate to the current working draft of _Open Font Format_ at the time this document was
submitted to the MPEG committee.

   * [m64287-combined.docx - saved from LibreOffice, sent to ISO](m64287-combined.docx)
   * [m64287-combined.odt - original LibreOffice file](m64287-combined.odt)
   * [m64287-combined.pdf - PDF exported from LibreOffice](m64287-combined.pdf)


m64287, _Updating AVAR table in OFF to support the needs of modern computing platforms._

This propsoal supersedes the AVAR 2 section in m62937.

   * [m64287-AVAR_OFF_updates.docx - saved from LibreOffice, sent to ISO](m64287-AVAR_OFF_updates.docx)
   * [m64287-AVAR_OFF_updates.odt - original LibreOffice file](m64287-AVAR_OFF_updates.odt)
   * [m64287-AVAR_OFF_updates.pdf - PDF exported from LibreOffice](m64287-AVAR_OFF_updates.pdf)
   * [markdown generated by pandoc](m64287-AVAR_OFF_updates.md)

## 2023-04 (April 2023)

m62937, _Proposed improvements and new functionality for the Open Font Format standard for global font support._

The last section of this document is superseded by m64287; see next item.

   * [WG03_otf-improvements.docx](./WG03_otf-improvements.docx)
   * [Same in PDF](./WG03_otf-improvements.pdf)

