**INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATION FOR STANDARDISATION**

**ORGANISATION INTERNATIONALE DE NORMALISATION**

**ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 3**

**CODING OF MOVING PICTURES AND AUDIO**

**ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 3 m** **yyyy**

**Milford, Ontario, Canada – February 2024**

**Title: Increasing file-size and bandwidth efficiency, and improving
internationalization support, of OpenFont files using delta tables
(DMAP)**

**Author: Peter Constable (Microsoft, Inc., pconstable@microsoft.com),
Dave Crossland (Google Inc., dcrossland@google.com), Behdad Esfahbod
(behdad@behdad.org), Laurence Penney (lorp@lorp.org), Liam Quin
(Delightful Computing, liam@delightfulcomputing.com), Rod Sheeter
(Google Inc., rsheeter@google.com)**

# <span id="anchor"></span>Introduction

(This introduction is not part of the proposal)

The purpose of a DMAP table in a Collection is to avoid duplication of
the cmap table, which for a CJK font can be large. It is a per-subfont
table that is consulted *before* cmap, overriding cmap.

The ‘DMAP’ table was previously proposed by Ned Holbrook, Ken Lunds,
Dwayne Robinson, and Peter Constable.

<span id="anchor-1"></span><span id="anchor-2"></span>DMAP—Delta map
table<span id="anchor-3"></span> \[5.6.13\] \[add at end of 5.6 optional
tables section, before 6 Advanced Open Font layout tables\]

An optional ‘DMAP’ table, if present, shall take priority over
‘cmap’—that is, the character-to-glyph lookup shall first look in the
‘DMAP’ table (including any variation-selectors). If a match is not
found, ‘cmap’ shall be consulted. The ‘DMAP’ table is identical in
structure to the ‘cmap’ table.

This allows individual members of a TTC collection to override or supply
parts of a shared character map, saving space in the font.

DMAP Table

|        |                     |                                                                                    |
|--------|---------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type   | Name                | Description                                                                        |
| uint16 | version             | Set to zero                                                                        |
| uint16 | NumTables           | Number off offset fields to follow                                                 |
| uint32 | offset\[numTables\] | Array of offsets to cmap subtables, measured from the beginning of the DMAP table. |

The DMAP subtables are in the same formats as CMAP subtables.

The *language* field for a format 4, 12, or 13 DMAP subtable shall be
set to zero.

> <span id="anchor-4"></span>Note: Any subtables in a DMAP table,
> including Format 14 and Format 15, shall supersede any such subtables
> in the corresponding ‘cmap’ table in entirety.

Near the end of
<span id="anchor-5"></span><span id="anchor-6"></span><span id="anchor-7"></span><span id="anchor-8"></span><span id="anchor-9"></span><span id="anchor-10"></span><span id="anchor-11"></span><span id="anchor-12"></span>**The
Font Collection file structure** \[4.6.2\] we add a paragraph:

### <span id="anchor-13"></span><span id="anchor-14"></span><span id="anchor-15"></span><span id="anchor-16"></span><span id="anchor-17"></span><span id="anchor-18"></span><span id="anchor-19"></span>**The Font Collection file structure** \[4.6.2\]

A font collection file consists of a single TTC header table, one or
more table directories (each corresponding to a different font
resource), and a number of OFF tables. The TTC header shall be located
at the beginning of the TTC file.

The TTC file shall contain a complete table directory for each font
resource. The same TableDirectory format is used for each font resource
in a collection file as is used in a non-collection file. The table
offsets in all table directories within a TTC file are measured from the
beginning of the TTC file.

Each OFF table in a TTC file is referenced through the table directory
of each font which uses that table. Some of the OFF tables must appear
multiple times, once for each font included in the TTC; while other
tables may be shared by multiple fonts in the TTC.

As an example, consider a TTC file which combines two Japanese fonts
(Font1 and Font2). The fonts have different kana designs (Kana1 and
Kana2) but use the same design for kanji. The TTC file contains a single
'glyf' table which includes both designs of kana together with the
kanji; both fonts' table directories point to this 'glyf' table. But
each font's table directory points to a different 'cmap' table, which
identifies the glyph set to use. Font1's 'cmap' table points to the
Kana1 region of the 'loca' and 'glyf' tables for kana glyphs, and to the
kanji region for the kanji. Font2's 'cmap' table points to the Kana2
region of the 'loca' and 'glyf' tables for kana glyphs, and to the same
kanji region for the kanji.

The tables that should have a unique copy per font are those that are
used by the system in identifying the font and its character mapping,
including 'cmap', 'name', and 'OS/2'. The tables that should be shared
by fonts in the TTC are those that define glyph and instruction data or
use glyph indices to access data: 'glyf', 'loca', 'hmtx', 'hdmx',
'LTSH', 'cvt ', 'fpgm', 'prep', 'EBLC', 'EBDT', 'EBSC', 'maxp', and so
on. In practice, any tables which have identical data for two or more
fonts may be shared.

Each font in the TTC may contain its own DMAP table. In addition, a font
using CMAP may support characters and GlyphIDs also defined by another
font; in the case of overlapping coverage the order of precedence is
first DMAP, then CMAP, and then finally cmap.

> NOTE When building a collection file from separate font files, close
> attention needs to be paid to the issue of glyph renumbering in a font
> and the side effects that can result in the 'cmap' table and
> elsewhere. The fonts to be merged also need to have compatible
> TrueType instructions; that is, their preprograms, function
> definitions, and control values cannot conflict.

Collection files containing TrueType glyph outlines should use the
filename suffix .TTC. Collection files containing CFF or CFF2 outlines
should use the file extension .OTC.

In CMAP just before the cmap header (5.1.1.2)

<span id="anchor-20"></span>An optional ‘DMAP’ table, if present, shall
take priority over ‘cmap’—that is, the character-to-glyph lookup shall
first look in the ‘DMAP’ table (including any variation-selectors). If a
match is not found, ‘cmap’ is to be consulted. The ‘DMAP’ table is
identical in structure to the ‘cmap’ table.

  

\[end\]
