**INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATION FOR STANDARDISATION**

**ORGANISATION INTERNATIONALE DE NORMALISATION**

**ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 3**

**CODING OF MOVING PICTURES AND AUDIO**

**ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 3 m** **67465**

**Rennes, France – April 2024**

**Title: **<span id="anchor"></span>**Improving interoperability of OFF
fonts with duplicated axis names**

**Author: Dave Crossland (Google Inc., dcrossland@google.com), Behdad
Esfahbod (behdad@behdad.org), Laurence Penney (lorp@lorp.org), Liam Quin
(Delightful Computing, liam@delightfulcomputing.com), Rod Sheeter
(Google Inc., rsheeter@google.com)**

# <span id="anchor-1"></span>Introduction

(This introduction is not part of the proposal)

<span id="anchor-2"></span>This proposal does not introduce any new
features. Rather, it provides documentation for what should happen in
what might previously have been thought to be a rare edge case, so that
different implementations can interoperate correctly.

Currently, a variable font can have multiple entries in ‘fvar’ for the
same axis. The specification does not disallow this. However, if more
than one such multiple entry is visible to the user interface, the
result is unpredictable and may be confusing for users.

Therefore, we explicitly state that at most one duplicated axis entry
may be visible, and require, for interoperability with existing tools,
that it be the first.

Fonts with multiple entries for the same axis are in use on the Web
today, including as part of a technique referred to as Higher Order
Interpolation (HOI). It is not a new feature, but the current
specification is silent about it.

<https://github.com/harfbuzz/boring-expansion-spec/issues/15>

  

<span id="anchor-3"></span>In 7.3.3 fvar—Font variations table, after
VariationAxisRecord, after the paragraph about the HIDDEN_AXIS tag, add
a new final paragraph as follows:

Fonts may have multiple axes with the same axisTag; this can be helpful
for smooth animation and for non-linear interpolation. For each set of
axes that has an identical axisTag:

- At most one axis in the set shall be visible (i.e. have its
  HIDDEN_AXIS bit set to zero);
- If the set contains a visible axis, it shall come before any
  non-visible axes of that set in the axes array;
- In a UI or an API, the minimum, maximum and default values for the
  common axisTag shall be taken from the minValue, maxValue and
  defaultValue of the axis in the set that comes earliest in the axes
  array;
- All axes in the set shall have the same defaultValue;
- Although the axis locations for all axes in the set are defined to be
  identical, their normalized values may be different when their
  minValue or maxValue are different;
- Independent adjustment of multiple axes having same axisTag shall not
  be offered or processed.

> NOTE 1 An implementation may choose to allow adjustment of a set of
> axes with no visible member, using the first member as described
> above, but there is no requirement to do so.

\[end\]
