**INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATION FOR STANDARDISATION**

**ORGANISATION INTERNATIONALE DE NORMALISATION**

**ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 3**

**CODING OF MOVING PICTURES AND AUDIO**

**ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 3 m** **yyyy**

**Milford, Ontario, Canada – March 2024**

**Title: **<span id="anchor"></span>**Improving interoperability of
OpenFontFormat files (fonts) in the area of duplicated axis names**

**Author: Dave Crossland (Google Inc., dcrossland@google.com), Behdad
Esfahbod (behdad@behdad.org), Laurence Penney (lorp@lorp.org), Liam Quin
(Delightful Computing, liam@delightfulcomputing.com), Rod Sheeter
(Google Inc., rsheeter@google.com)**

# <span id="anchor-1"></span>Introduction

(This introduction is not part of the proposal)

<span id="anchor-2"></span>This proposal does not introduce any new
features. Rather, it provides documentation for what should happen in
what might previously have been thought to be a rare edge case, so that
different implementations can interoperate correctly.

Currently, a variable font can have multiple entries in ‘fvar’ for the
same axis. The specification does not disallow this. However, if more
than one such multiple entry is visible to the user interface, the
result is unpredictable and may be confusing for users.

Therefore, we explicitly state that only one duplicated axis entry may
be visible, and require, for interoperability with existing tools, that
it be the first.

Fonts with multiple entries for the same axis are in use on the Web
today, including as part of a technique referred to as Higher Order
Interpolation (HOI). It is not a new feature, but the current
specification is silent about it.

<https://github.com/harfbuzz/boring-expansion-spec/issues/15>

  

<span id="anchor-3"></span>In 7.3.3 fvar—Font variations table, after
VariationAxisRecord, after the paragraph about the HIDDEN_AXIS tag, add
a new final paragraph as follows:

<span id="anchor-4"></span>For smooth animation, and for non-linear
interpolation, it may be necessary for a font to use multiple axes with
the same axisTag.

If a font contains more than one axis with the same axisTag, at most one
of those axes shall be visible (i.e. have the HIDDEN_AXIS bit set to
zero). The VariationAxisRecord for such a visible axis in this case
shall appear first, before the records for any of the other axes with
that same axisTag, all of which shall have their HIDDEN_AXIS flag set to
1.

\[end\]
